We just left off on an example
using duplex streams.
The next thing that I want to
talk about is object streams.
So thus far, we've been dealing
with buffers and strings, but
it's also possible to
use arbitrary objects.
So, I think this is most useful when
you have something like a parser.
And you want the parser to
produce objects from strings.
And you also want it to sort
of respect back pressure.
So you can have a whole pipeline of
operations that happen in a streaming
fashion, without having to serialize,
and then deserialize a bunch of times.
So, it's kind of,
it can be useful for different
sorts of optimizations like that.
To use objects streams,
you have to enable them
with a special Object Mode
colon true in camel case.
Or if you use through2,
you can use this method through.obj,
and that does it for you.
So, these are equivalent.
Of course when you pipe an object
stream to somewhere else,
that destination stream also has to
be capable of object streaming mode.
So, you'll have to enable it separately.
Yeah, why don't we go ahead and just poke
around a little bit with object streams.
So, I'll make a new file obj.js.
We'll use through2, and we'll just read
data from standardin for right now.
I'm gonna cover some other modules that
will make some of this stuff a little bit
more flexible and powerful later, but for
now, this, I think will do the trick.
So there are two ways of doing it,
I'll just type them both out.
So you can do objectMode true.
This is the only way if you're
using the core stream.transform.
Or you can do, Or
you can do just through.obj,
is a nice little shorthand for that.
And then in our write function, We can
Turn those buffers into objects, why not?
So why don't I keep a running
tally of bytes, and
I'll just output the total number of bytes
that we've seen so far in the message.
So can do, just like normal, just like
how you normally use the next function or
this stop, push to produce values
into the output side of the stream.
This time I'm gonna include length,
buffed out length,
and then total will be size
plus equals about that length.
You can put whatever you want in here.
So this is gonna produce values, but
we haven't read the values anywhere yet.
So to read the values, what we can do
is pipe into another object stream.
So we'll call this, better name these
write functions a little bit differently.
So this one will be write1, write2, sure.
Okay, so
the next one we make is called write2.
Now we're gonna get objects
as input not buffers.
And we don't have to produce anything in
this one, because it's a terminal stream.
There's another module called two two
that I'll get to in a moment, for
doing that without a transform stream.
But for now,
I'll just say console.log obj equals obj.
So now if we run this program,
we should get a running tally
of the total amount of data
that we've seen so far.
And the other property in the object
should be the size of each piece
of data that we write.
So if I run it, lets say one.
We get length of 4, because it
includes the new line at the end,
O-N-E new line, and total 4.
Two is also length 4 but
now we've seen 8 bytes.
Three is gonna be 6 bytes, and
we've seen 14 bytes so far and so on.
So, just kind of a fun thing to do.
One other thing that we haven't used yet
is through, and also the core stream,
core transform constructor,
can take end function.
In core, it's called flush.
It's the same thing.
So, why don't we have a little
function that can happen at the end?
So now maybe instead of just
calculating the stuff from objects,
we can do something at
the end here as well.
So maybe our object
stream won't tally these itself, but
we can keep that in a piece of state.
So I'm just moving some
stuff around to show.
And then at the end we'll say,
size equal size.
Make sense?
Okay, so when I run this program now, it
should just printout the number of bytes,
I mean, they're better ways to write
this that don't use object streams.
But this is just an example
of how to use object streams.
And later, we'll use some modules
that deal with object streams for
us, that are a bit easier to use.
So whoops.
Right, shouldn't be called buff,
it should be obj.
Now I do Ctrl D to end it and
I get the total link.
So that's just kind of
an example of the end function.
You can also listen for
the end event, because transform
streams are both readable and writable.
So there's an indent present.
The end function is a little
bit easier sometimes.
Another important thing to note
about readable streams is that,
because you're pulling from them,
if you don't hook them up to an output,
they will just sit there and
not do anything.
So you'll never get an end event if
you don't actually read the data.
Because they're only pulling from the data
source when you tell them to pull,
something to keep in mind.